# Tarea Probabilidad y Estadística  
## Lic. Tecnología ENES Juriquilla, 2021  
## F.A. Barrios  
### ANOVA. En todos los problemas explique sus resultados y discuta los niveles de confianza estadística, e intervalos de confianza.  

In Exercises 1-3, go through the steps of analysis of variance hypothesis testing to see if you can conclude that there is a difference among population means. Construct boxplots of the data. Let α = .05 for each test. Use Tukey’s HSD procedure to test for significant differences among individual pairs of means (if appropriate).  
1. Researchers at Case Western Reserve University wanted to develop and implement a transducer, manageable in a clinical setting, for quantifying isometric moments produced at the elbow joint by individuals with tetraplegia (paralysis or paresis of all four limbs). The apparatus, called an elbow moment transducer (EMT), measures the force the elbow can exert when flexing. The output variable is voltage. The machine was tested at four different elbow extension angles, 30, 60, 90, and 120 degrees, on a mock elbow consisting of two hinged aluminum beams. The data are in EXR_C08_S02_01.csv.  
2. Ilich-Ernst et al. investigated dietary intake of calcium among a cross section of 113 healthy women aged 20–88. The researchers formed four age groupings as follows: Group A, 20.0–45.9 years; group B, 46.0–55.9 years; group C, 56.0–65.9 years; and group D, over 66 years. Calcium from food intake was measured in mg/day. The data in EXR_C08_S02_03.csv are consistent with summary statistics given in the paper.  
3. In a study by Wang et al. researchers examined bone strength. They collected 10 cadaveric femurs from subjects in three age groups: young (19–49 years), middle-aged (50–69 years), and elderly (70 years or older) Note: one value was missing in the middle-aged group. One of the outcome measures (W) was the force in Newton required to fracture the bone. The table in EXR_C08_S02_05.csv has the data for the three age groups.  
4. The nursing supervisor in a local health department wished to study the influence of time of day on length of home visits by the nursing staff. It was thought that individual differences among nurses might be large, so the nurse was used as a blocking factor. The nursing supervisor collected the data in EXR_C08_S03_04.csv. Do these data provide sufficient evidence to indicate a difference in length of home visit among the different times of day? Let α = .05.  
5. Holben et al. designed a study to evaluate selenium intake in young women in the years of puberty. The researchers studied a cohort of 16 women for three consecutive summers. One of the outcome variables was the selenium intake per day. The researchers examined dietary journals of the subjects over the course of 2 weeks and then computed the average daily selenium intake. The table in EXR_C08_S04_03.csv has the average daily selenium intake values (in μg/d) for the 16 women in years 1, 2, and 3 of the study.
